Today is deadlift day and I've got a
present for you guys. I'm going to teach
you guys how to structure your deadlifts
over the long term so that you can have
a nice and strong deadlift. But first,
why should you listen to me? Because the
techniques that I teach are the same
ones that I used to help Hafthor
Björnsson deadlift 510 kg as well as 505
kg as well as 501 kg to be the strongest
conventional deadlifter on the planet.
And I'm going to be teaching this to you
guys. Now, this came from a request in
the messages on one of the last videos
where someone said, "Can you please do
the same thing that you've done for your
squats and your bench presses and teach
us how to set up your long-term phasing
for your deadlifts?" And I thought, "I'm
sure I've done that plenty of times, but
you know what? Why not? I'm going to do
it again." Now, what I've just done is
warmed up. So, my deadlift warm-up was
uh 270 kg for a single. Now, based on
last week, my max was 300, so this is
90% of my max for a top single as a way
to potentiate the work that I'm going to
do. Now, that is just my strategy.
That's just my little bit of fun. You
don't have to do that and that's
probably not what I would write in a
program. This is just me just training
intuitively. I'm not training for a
competition, but either way, what my
main work is today is paused deficit
deadlifts and the goal is 220 kg for
three sets of three. So, I'm going to
show you that. It's my favorite, well,
one of my favorite accessories. There
are so many amazing ones. One of my
favorite deadlift accessories. I'm going
to talk you through that, but I'm also
going to teach you guys how to structure
your deadlifting program over a 12-week
program. Uh you know, 12 weeks is not
really a long amount of time, but it's a
great way of visualizing, you know, a
start, a middle term, and an end for
your deadlift phase. Now, this is where
I consider all of our programs can use
the similar structure and it's based on
original text of periodization by Tudor
Bompa. Talks about long-term
programming. Now, 12 weeks isn't very
long, but it's kind of like an
exaggerated version of what you would do
in the long term. Now, the three phases
are essentially accumulation phase to
start, which is high volume. Then we go
to the transmutation phase or
intensification phase, which is the
lower volume and heavy loads. And then
we go to the realization phase, which is
the peaking phase. Now, a lot of
high-level athletes spend a lot more
time than 4 weeks on each of these
phases. However, we're going to
fast-track it and give you a 12-week
program mainly because people are in a
hurry to get the most out of themselves.
The first phase is kind of like a high
rep phase. It's a high volume phase and
it's something that I like to start
everyone on, especially with your
deadlift journey. The deadlift is one of
those exercises that a lot of people
have injured themselves on. They say the
deadlift is a dangerous exercise. Now,
it's like, well, you know, there's a bit
of truth behind that, but also, you
know, a bit of you just weren't doing it
properly. Okay? So, what does it mean to
do it properly? Well, you know, I was a
culprit of that. When I first started
deadlifting, I quickly realized that it
was the strongest lift that I have in in
the gym. So, it's stronger than my
squat, my bench press, all of the
barbell exercises, the deadlift is the
strongest. And it's fun to do the
strongest exercise. You enjoy doing
that. And every week you put on more
weight in the beginning of your training
years and you can just go heavier and
heavier and heavier and heavier and you
keep on going heavier until something
goes pop. And that was me and actually,
in my experience as a coach, that's so
many people that I talked to about their
deadlifting journey have injured their
backs in their early years of their
training doing the exact same approach.
So, therefore, if you're doing that
approach, take it from me, that's the
wrong approach. So, if you were to
employ me as your coach, I wouldn't have
you on a heavy deadlift phase,
especially to begin with. It would take
a while of training with me before I get
you to start deadlifting heavy. The
reason for that is one of the things I
learned from a fellow by the name of
Professor Stuart McGill. He's one of the
best spine researchers in the world and
he talks a lot about uh spine strength
in terms of, you know, rehabilitation.
And he talks about his long-term
coaching for his rehabilitation. The
first thing that he looks at is building
strength endurance as the first phase
for anyone's rehabilitation journey.
Now,
when I'm programming for people or in my
entire experience as a coach, something
that I've learned is the techniques that
we use to rehabilitate a body align very
closely with the techniques that we use
to strengthen a body. Strength and joint
health and rehabilitation kind of
overlap in many, many ways. This is what
I learned when I rehabilitated my back
because I came off a deadlifting injury.
The first thing that I learned to
rehabilitate my back was to start doing
lighter loads and higher reps. Now, the
way that I did that was a technique that
forces you to not be able to lift very
heavy, which is a snatch-grip deadlift
from a deficit. Now, that's not the only
method that you can use. That's just the
method that I used and I use it very
successfully. And I, because of the
success I had with it, I applied it to
all of the people that I work with,
including Thor Björnsson. When I first
started working with him, that was one
of our first phases that we trained. It
was a high volume phase with snatch-grip
deadlifts from a deficit. I learned that
from my mentor, Charles Poliquin. Now,
just to paint a picture, I deadlifted uh
I injured my back attempting a 240 kg
deadlift. My max at the time was 220,
which is uh five blue plates and that
was a really nice milestone and I smoked
it. It came up really easily and I
thought, "Let's just keep on going." And
so, I put 240 kg on, missed it, and my
back was very sore for about a year. It
was very sore. And every week I'd come
back and try and deadlift and I wasn't
able to get past 140 kg without my back
hurting. So, it was very frustrating. I
still tried. I wanted to deadlift
because deadlift is, you know, like the
badass exercise. And it's one of the
best strength exercises for good reason,
but I just wasn't able to do it. But I
was just determined to get it back and
it wasn't the right approach. I kept on
coming in. Every time I got up to 140
kg, my back would hurt and I wasn't able
to deadlift. Anyway, Charles Poliquin
prescribed this program for me and it
was snatch-grip deadlifts from a
deficit. And the start weight was 100
kg. So, I looked at it and I thought,
"Okay, 100 kg, I can do that without
pain. I haven't trained my deadlifts in
such a long time. May as well give it a
start." So, anyway, I started on 100 kg.
Now, this program, 10 sets of six reps.
Okay? That comes from German volume
training. So, if anyone knows what
German volume training is, it's pretty
much 10 by 10 on the biggest compound
exercise. Popularized by the Germans and
it was used to hypertrophy or build
muscle in the off-season. So, that's
where Charles Poliquin borrowed that
idea from. So, it was 10 sets of six
reps, so you don't have to do 10. 10
sets of six reps with snatch-grip
deadlifts from a deficit.
is using a wide grip, which makes you
have to travel a longer range of motion,
which makes it harder. And then standing
on a deficit, which makes you have to
travel further again, which makes it
harder again, which is another reason
why you can't lift as heavy. Really long
range of motion, you know, 10 sets is
very fatiguing. So, therefore, you can't
lift as heavy, so we've got to reduce
the load again. The next thing was
5-second eccentric. So, the 5-second
eccentric makes the movement harder
again. So, it's like so many different
angles, so many different ways of making
that movement really, really hard. So,
for me, doing 100 kg for 10 sets of six.
Uh by the way, if you do that program,
don't do it without straps. You just
won't be able to, not effectively. So,
that program, for the first time in a
year, gave me a stimulus. Like, it
didn't hurt my back. I finished the
entire program and it was like, "Wow,
this feels great. My back muscles are
stimulated." Airplane. And because of
that, I, you know, was happy about my
training. My training morale was high
and it's like, "Great, we're deadlifting
again." Now, the incremental increases
from week to week weren't high. So, you
know, you can go up 2.5 to 5%. So,
that's usually the way that I set up my
programming is to set you up so that you
can start light so that you can add
anywhere between, you know, 2 2 to 5% of
load every week. So, for me, you can go
from 100 kg, 105, 110, 115, and so on. I
did this program for six rotations, so
it was two times a week, which meant I
did it for 3 weeks. Going up by I don't
know what it was. It was 2.5 or 5 kg
each session. It was not much. It was
not much. And I finished on a very light
weight. I started on 100 and I think I
finished around 120 kg. Something like
that, maybe even less. Anyway, after the
3-week phase, I came back on week four
and my back was feeling great. I had six
successful sessions of this deadlift
phase and I came back and this is the
wrong approach, but I did it anyway. I
tested my max. So, that's not what you
do. If you come back from rehab, don't
come back. Don't think you've rehabbed
and then think it's a brilliant idea to
come back and test your max. But anyway,
I was young and that was me. I made
plenty of mistakes, but that was one of
them that luckily I was able to achieve
without hurting myself again. Anyway, I
came back to 220 kg and I was able to do
it after a year of not being able to go
heavy. I didn't go over 140 kg for the
entire year. Came back after six
rotations of that program where the most
I'd lifted was like 120 kg and I got 220
pretty comfortably. I dare say that I
could have gone heavier. However, if
anyone's experienced low back pain
before, you'll understand that there's a
psychological barrier that you need to
cross when you're rehabilitating. When
you go through low back pain for over a
year and you understand how painful it
is, you don't want to go back there. So,
for me, that that number was 220 kg. I'd
gotten there and it's like, "Okay, last
time I got beyond here, I hurt myself."
So, I was petrified to go beyond that.
So, anyhow, got to 220 kg again and that
was me pain-free, back to deadlifting
again. So, I was very, very happy. And,
you know, this is what I did as a coach.
All of these stimulus that I applied on
myself, I then realized this is a great
idea and I'm going to give it to my
clients as well that were suffering from
low back pain or, you know, wanting a a
low back rehabilitation program. So, I
was giving it out to my clients that
wanted to repair their low back pain.
And I was getting the same success,
which was, you know, sore low back, give
them 10 sets of six with a snatch-grip
deadlift from a deficit, and then come
back and their deadlift was a lot
stronger. So, then I started realizing,
you know what? It's just making people
strong. It's not just about rehab, it's
making people strong. I'm not going to
wait for when people are injured before
I give them a high volume phase. So,
what I started to do was anytime people
would start working with me, the start
block of their long-term journey was 10
by six snatch grip deadlift from a
deficit. So, if anyone's worked with me,
you'll be able to vouch for that. And if
you've worked with me, put in the
comment section below and let me know
your experience, your love-hate
relationship with that snatch grip
protocol. I hate doing it, but I love
the results. And I'd say that that's uh
pretty much the same response from many
people. But anyway, that's phase one.
So, that's a high volume phase. And this
is what I recommend for everyone that
starts their deadlift journey is to
consider high volume low loads for their
deadlift. It doesn't have to be snatch
grip deadlift from a deficit. It could
be Romanian deadlifts with high rep
range. It could be, you know, any
deadlift pattern that you want, but
build strength endurance first. I
learned that from Professor Stuart
McGill from his rehabilitation
protocols. I don't think that Charles
Poliquin learned that from Stuart
McGill. Maybe he did, but either way, I
used his protocols and they aligned and
it was very successful result. So,
there's phase one of your program. 10
sets of six snatch grip deadlift from a
deficit and you don't have to do
accessories after that. I'll tell you
now, it's hard uh and you don't need to
do accessories. Now, my calculations
whenever I'm writing this for somebody,
I'll tell you the loads that I choose,
which is very important for your
programming. I'm going to wait till the
airplane goes. How heavy you lift uh if
you if you mess that up, uh that can
make the program very ineffective. If
you go too heavy, uh you can injure
yourself. Uh it's just not right. And if
you go too light, you're not going to
provide enough stimulus. Now, let me
tell you how I calculate my percentages
for this specific program. I consider
what's your max conventional deadlift,
not sumo. So, don't calculate it from
sumo, it's different. What's your max
conventional deadlift? So, let's just
call it 200 kg. You should be able to do
100 kg. So, 50% of your max is what you
should be able to do. But what I like to
do for any of my programs is start
conservative. Okay? So, I say, if you've
got a one rep max of 200 kg, you should
be able to do 50% of that. But to start
conservative, I don't want to do what
you should be able to do, I want to go
lighter than that. So, I say, figure out
your one rep max and do 45% of that. So,
therefore, start on 90 kg. If you've got
a 200 kg deadlift, start on 90 kg. If
you've got a 100 kg deadlift, start on
45 kg and so on. And that allows you to
be able to go up by 5% jumps each week.
So, if you start on, you know, 45% of
your max, you can go 45, 50, 55, and
then finish on 60% of your max. Okay?
So, that's roughly what you should be
able to do if you want to do
calculations for the first four weeks of
your 12-week program. That's for free.
You don't have to pay me. That's a whole
session. It'll probably take 50 minutes
to finish the session. You don't need to
do accessories. Airplane. Okay? So, the
way that I do that is I also include 3
minutes rest, which if you know me, 3
minutes is not a long time. For some
people it might be, but trust me, take 3
minutes rest between sets, which means
10 sets of 3 minutes rest is 30 minutes
of just resting. Plus a minute for the
set, that's 40 minutes for the work from
first work set to the last work set.
That's 40 minutes plus the warm-up to
get there. How long does it take you to
warm up? 5 minutes, 10 minutes, there's
50 minutes. And then you're going to
want to lay down on the floor on your
back for 5 to 10 minutes after that.
There's your hour. You don't need to do
accessories. A lot of people say, should
I do hamstrings after that or calves or
whatever? It's like, if you must, but a
lot of the times, if you feel that
stimulus, you won't feel like doing
anything. You're going to have a mega
back pump. If you've chosen 45% of your
max, it's not going to hurt you. It's
going to be good. Now, there's first
phase of your program. That's a high
volume phase. Okay? The way that it's
defined in the texts by Tudor Bompa
periodization is that's your
accumulation. Next phase is
transmutation, which is what I'm going
to go through. That's pretty much what
I'm at, which is where we turn that
muscle that we've built, that work
capacity that we've built, and now we
start building strength. Now, before I
go into the strength phase, I'm going to
set up my barbell and I'm going to start
re-warming up so that I can do my
strength phase.
>> [sighs]
[sighs]
[snorts]
[sighs and gasps]
[sighs]
>> All right.
I don't know how that looked in terms of
if I looked like I had more in the tank,
more reps. I'm sure I did. However, it's
still hard. It's still hard.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> 3 by 3, it's not an outrageous amount of
volume.
I wasn't recording. Something that I say
with this exercise,
because you're pausing,
>> [gasps]
>> it's increasing the time under tension
per repetition. So, when you consider
what's a good rep range for this
exercise in particular,
don't count one rep as a normal rep
because it's
longer time under tension per
repetition. So, I say it's about one and
a half reps. So, three
is more like four and a half, five reps,
>> [sighs]
>> which I believe is kind of
you know, sweet spot when it comes to
strength. So, back to strength building.
So, this is phase two
of your 12-week program. Now, phase two
is you've just done this high volume
work and you built work capacity, you
built strength endurance.
And now,
so that's the accumulation phase.
You then go into the transmutation
phase. We turn that bigger, so
hypertrophied conditioned muscle into
stronger muscle. So, this is where we
reduce the volume and increase the
loads. So, I just told you, snatch grip
deadlift from a deficit, we're working
between 45 to 60%. That's for that
program. I'm not saying it's 45% across
the board, but for that specific
program, that's the protocols that I
use. And trust me, you'll need it. It's
hard. Now, for this one, strength is the
next phase. You have to understand when
it comes to strength, a lot of people
talk about the appropriate rep ranges
for strength and they say one to six
reps is a strength rep range. To a large
degree, I agree. However, parts of that
I disagree. And that is, the reason why
we say one to six reps for strength is
because you need to be lifting heavy.
How heavy? Kind of like 80% and upwards.
Now, what's 80% when you talk about how
many reps can you do of 80%? It's
usually kind of like six. So, anywhere
between six reps and under, so zero to
six reps is strength training. However,
when it comes to progressing over the
long term, you still need to include
volume. You can't just come in and do
one set of one at 100% like that's
maximum intensity and expect if you just
do that every week, you're just going to
get stronger because you're not doing
enough volume. You need to include the
volume work, especially to maintain or
even build muscle. So, this is where I
say kind of one and two reps, I don't
really think that is very good for
strength building. It's good for testing
the skill of strength, teaching the body
how to understand what the heavy load
feels like, which is important if your
goal is to do a one rep max. You need to
feel what a one rep max feels like.
However, that rep range isn't the best
for building strength. So, I say
strength building rep ranges is kind of
three to six. So, I've just gone on a
So, for me, I still don't like to go
straight up deadlifts. I mean, sometimes
I will. It's a great way of doing it.
But I choose this exercise for my
strength. So, pause deficit deadlifts.
Today I did three by three. You can do
four by four. I also prescribe that. You
know, anywhere between the three to six
rep range for your deadlifts. Now we're
starting to lift heavier loads, but not
so heavy like the one and two rep range.
Even three rep range is kind of like
borderline lowest on the strength
building phase. But the reason why it's
fine for me now is because I'm adding a
pause and a deficit. I'm not going as
heavy. The heavier the load, the higher
the risk of injury. So, it's not just
how hard you work. Like, this is really
hard. I can have a higher deficit. If I
put another deficit the same height as
that, that'd be really, really hard. But
because the load is a much lower
percentage of my max, the risk of injury
is a lot lower. Okay? So, this is part
of getting strong is factoring in I
don't want to get injured. So, you're
building enough strength around the
structure to not injure yourself. This
is a part of picking your strength in a
deadlift and and longevity in the sport
and longevity in that specific exercise,
which is the deadlift. So, three to six
reps, choose a variation where it's not
the actual conventional deadlift. Of
course, you can if you want, but in my
preference, I like to go a variation of
the deadlift that is still not allowing
you to go as heavy as possible. So, we
went snatch grip deadlift from a
deficit, high volume. Pause deficit
deadlift, lower volume and heavier
loads. And then in the next phase,
that's where we peak our strength. So,
that's going to be So, after this phase,
you know, I've said to you guys it's a
12-week program, which would suggest
four weeks on hypertrophy or
accumulation, four weeks on strength or
intensification, and then four weeks on
peaking. But you can spend eight weeks
on hypertrophy and eight weeks on
strength. But I don't recommend you go
more than four weeks on peaking, okay?
And I'll explain why. So, I'm going to
do a few other accessory exercises. This
isn't it. So, I did, you know, three by
three pause deadlifts, and now I'm going
to do some complimentary exercises. I'm
going to do some hamstring curls and
some 45° back extensions, and I'll
explain why I'm doing that in a moment,
but that's a part of this program. So,
for the 10 by 6 snatch grip, no
accessories. For this one, three by
three is not a huge amount of volume. I
can afford to do accessories. So,
hamstring curls is important. This isn't
the best exercise for hamstrings, but
hamstring, strong hamstring is important
for having a strong body and a strong
posterior chain. And then, you know, 45°
back extensions, I love that exercise to
throw in a little bit more volume and
strengthen the glutes in the fully
shortened position. So, deadlifts,
squats, so deadlifts is that's most
tensions on the glutes in the lengthened
That's where I stretch my glutes.
Whereas, the 45° back extension, most of
the tension is placed in the fully
shortened position, which has a great
carryover to lockout strength. Uh but,
in my opinion, it's good to have
strength in every muscle through all
ranges of motion, fully lengthened and
fully contracted fully contracted.
Either way, the three exercises that I'm
choosing today, deadlift, hamstring
curl, and 45° back extension, are all
non-overlapping.
The choice of exercise, they all target
something slightly different to each
other. Uh
and that's my uh strength phase, where
I'm still providing myself with enough
volume to make sure that I don't lose
muscle mass, right? So, that's a big
part of There's a muscle building phase,
which is higher volume. Now, I've gone
to the strength phase. Doing the
strength phase doesn't mean you're going
to lose muscle just because it's not a
specific muscle building phase. The
choice of exercise makes sure I'm either
maintaining or even still slightly
building muscle. The main focus is
strength, of course, but muscle is a
side effect. Now, that's, you know, for
this program, four weeks of
accumulation, four weeks of strength or
intensification. Then, so, as I said,
you can take those longer than four
weeks. Peaking phase, don't take that
for longer than four weeks. What is a
peaking phase? The idea of peaking in
strength This is something that I'm very
good at, and if you look at people like
Thor Björnsson, that's kind of proof is
in the pudding. He did, you know,
through his programming, he never lifts
heavy in his in his training, but then
he manages to do the heaviest weights
ever on competition day when it counts,
right? So, his last deadlift before a
510 kg deadlift, uh his last deadlift
session, I think it was uh 460 double.
Was it 460 double? Something like that.
And then he did 510 for one. You know,
the prep before that it was a 480
single, and then he did 505 for one. So,
he never goes heavy because he's not
able to go as heavy, and it's very
fatiguing. So, what we do with our
peaking, the idea of peaking is most
times the training that you accumulate
in that, you know, we've just done eight
weeks of training, that's accumulated
fatigue. So, what you want to do is
reduce the fatigue. One of the biggest
contributors to your fatigue is volume.
So, that's what we want to get rid of.
So, when we talk about peaking, what you
want to do is the really, really
important work, which is specificity.
So, for a deadlift, the program in the
last four weeks of peaking phase should
be the exact movement you want to peak
on, which is going to be the
conventional deadlift. Same applies for
all of the lifts. The peaking phase is
specificity to the highest degree. Now,
you want to reduce volume. So, how do we
do that? What we do is we cut out the
accessory exercises that aren't the
deadlift, right? So, on my peaking
phase, it doesn't mean you can't do
accessories. You can do some, but if you
do accessories, you want to factor in
accessories that come at a low cost of
fatigue. So, that's what I'm doing now,
hamstring curls. You could add those in
You could do conventional deadlifts and
hamstring curls, and then that's it. So,
the reason why you don't go for a long
period of time in your peaking is
because we've reduced volume to the
degree that if you stay on that program
for long enough, you will lose muscle.
So, that's why I say don't do it for
longer than four weeks. Now, the way
that I do my peaking phase is you work
towards being able to do a heavy single.
Now, if it's a four-week peaking phase,
because I'm giving you guys a 12-week
strategy, I'll tell you the exact
strategy that I like to start people on.
Over four weeks, I like to do top set,
top set and some back down work, right?
I've spoken to you guys about top set
back down set method, one of my favorite
ways. Week one, four reps top set, top
set of four. Week two, top set of three.
Week three, top set of two. Last week,
final week, top set of one. So, you've
gradually taught your body how to spend
maximum effort on gradually decreasing
reps. So, if you just go straight from,
you know, your you know, your
hypertrophy phases, which is not very
intelligent to go from a hypertrophy
phase to then come and test your max,
you're not going to be good at the skill
of your max. So, you have to gradually
teach your body the skill of that heavy
single, and that's my favorite way of
introducing someone to a peak for the
very first time is gradual reduction of
reps every single week. So, top set of
four, and then three by five. Top set of
three, three by five. Top set of two,
three by five. And top set of one, three
by five. And then some hamstring curls
after that. So, that's a program for
you. Instead of doing two proper
strength and hypertrophy phases, yeah.
You start with like 12
Oh, yeah, that's purely linear
periodization. This is what you have to
understand. There are so many
strategies. So, you can do 12 weeks and
go week one, 12, and then 11, then 10,
9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Yes, you can.
You can go four weeks on 12s, four weeks
on 10s, four weeks of eights, four weeks
of sixes, four weeks of fours, four
weeks of twos, and then peak. There are
so many different strategies. That's
linear. You can do So, that's more than
12 weeks as well. That's four weeks on
every one of those damn rep ranges. How
many weeks was that? That was
36 weeks. It could have been You can do
that for a whole year, absolutely. And a
lot of people I don't want to say a lot
of people. Most people at a high level
compete multiple times in a year, so
they don't do a year's worth of training
to peak their their max. So, that's what
you need to consider. How long do you
have? That's how long you should take.
Yeah, so yes, you know, like and that's
going to be so many questions that you
guys have. What about this program? The
answer is yeah, you can. There's so many
different programs. I'm just giving you
one single strategy that really, really
works. But if you follow those
principles that I set out, which was to
break it up into three phases, high
volume, moderate volume, peak. That's
the best way of building all the
physical qualities that you need to peak
without injuring yourself. Starting with
high volume means low load. The higher
the load, the easier or the higher the
risk of injury, okay? So, low loads is a
low risk of injury. That's where we
start. We accumulate strength endurance,
and we build muscle to support the
structures. That's the first phase.
Start with When you start your journey
to a heavy deadlift, stop starting with
testing heavy singles. It's not the
smartest way of doing it. The best
deadlifters in the world have probably
experienced back pain, uh but the ones
that haven't understand the value of
high volume work in their off-season to
build the strength supporting the
structure so that when you do spend time
on the heavy singles, you're not going
to injure yourself. So, choose your
structure. There are many different ways
of setting up your set scheme and
different accessory exercises, but as
long as the general trends are high
volume, moderate volume, low volume, and
peak. That's where you're going to get
your best chance of not only, you know,
reaching a really good successful heavy
one RM, but also doing it without
injuring yourself, which is one of the
biggest fears when it comes to back, and
that's why people say deadlifts are bad
for your back. If you follow that
structure in addition to lifting with
good technique, right? So, I talk a lot
about technique on my channel. You know,
I've just given a bench press tutorial,
in-depth in-depth bench press tutorial,
uh you've probably posted. If you
haven't seen it, click this link here.
Put the link in. We'll stick That one is
pure gold. I might as well do one for
deadlifts as well. Uh but either way,
this session, this video for you guys
was all about creating a 12-week
strategy. Um you know, make it 18 weeks,
make it 20 weeks, whatever. Extend those
periods. It doesn't really matter, but,
you know, 12 weeks was just uh you know,
as an example. Follow that structure.
Follow that program. You will get
stronger. Anyway, I hope you enjoyed
that session. I'm going to bang out I've
got I've got 19 minutes now before I've
got to get on a work call. Um I'm going
to do some accessory exercises. I'm
going to do some 45° back extensions,
and I'm going to do some hamstring
curls. So, I don't have much time, so
I'll probably do two sets of each. Let's
start with the back extension. So,
that's the order that I would do it.
Back extension first because it's harder
before I go into my hamstring curls.
Hamstring curls the easiest one. So, uh
exercise order for you guys, hardest
exercise first when you've got the most
energy, and then, you know, easiest
exercise, save that for last. You can be
so damn tired, but you can always fit in
some hamstring curls. You know what I'm
saying? Anyway, I've set this up, so I'm
going to be doing
back extensions. Now, I love this
exercise. Look at the position I'm in
here. I'm unloading my spine, so it's a
bit of a decompression exercise. There's
so much compression loading with my
deadlifts. I love to decompress the
spine here. Anyway,
>> [sighs]
>> 15 reps. I like 15 rep range for that
exercise. Any less than that kind of
doesn't make sense to me. It doesn't
feel like I've stimulated the muscle.
This is one of those exercises that just
suits high reps, just like a deadlift
just suits low reps. So, when you're
mixing and mashing exercises, and you
thinking about what's the appropriate
rep range for the session, one important
rule you have to remember, every
exercise comes with a different profile,
and you need to respect that. So, in
general, the more compound the exercise,
the lower the reps. The more isolated,
the higher the reps. So, my accessories
are typically higher reps, and my main
work is those reps that I prescribed for
you guys for the program. That's the
main work. When you're doing
accessories, change the rules. Doesn't
have to be the same reps. Anyway, let me
catch my breath. One more set. I hope
you enjoyed that session. That's 22
years as an industry professional, as an
elite lifter, as a pretty damn good
coach, giving you my deadlift lessons
for free. Hope you enjoyed. See you guys
next time.